[ppppp 38-40:  Article from DIE ZEIT, 30 November 1984, by Thomas von Randow]
Bildschirmtext:  A Blow Against the System
A Computer Club Discovers Breaches of Security in the Bundespost's BTX Program
"Whoever hooks up to the BTX system in the next two to three years should be
punished for stupidity."  This withering assessment of the Bundespost's new
service, Bildschirmtext, could be heard last week at the eighth conference of
data protection specialists in Cologne--from an authoritative source.  It was
spoken by the chairman of the Association for Data Protection (GDD), the
conference host, after he heard the comments of a computer entthusiast.  With
wit and a relaxed patter, Herwart ("Wau") Holland of Hamburg's "Chaos Computer
Club" (CCC) explained how he and his 23-year-old fellow club member, Steffen
WernSy, had managed to take the Bildschirmtext service for a ride.
Iteasier to get a winning six-digit combination in the lottery than to
illegally acquire the password of a BTX subscriber, Bildschirmtext experts at
the Bundespost had boasted.  But thatexactly what the computer chaotics did
straight away.  An error, in professional circles called a bug, in the system's
computer program made it as simple as child's play for the hackers.  Many
Bildschirmtext users had already noticed that there was something wrong with
the program.
Suppliers compose full-screen images with information about what they have to
offer--merchandise from the mail-order catalogue, vacations, account statements
for bank customers, or simply letters to friends.  These "pages" can then be
called in by (authorized) BTX subscribers, and responses to the relevant
questions--concerning a flight booking or a money transfer, for example--can be
input at home on the keyboard of the BTX auxiliary unit.
However, space on a television screenlimited, and the BTX page can hold
only 1,626 characters.  So that the designer knows during editing how many
characters he has left on the page, this numberindicated at the bottom edge
of the screen.  Until recently, however, this number was wrong--programmers are
notoriously poor at mental arithmetic.  The page was full before the number of
available characters reached zero.  For this reason, many suppliers experienced
a chaotic overflow of characters, something that shouldhappen.
Suddenly, all sorts of words, numbers or incomprehensible letter sequences flit
by on the screen.  The reason for this character salad:  The creators of the
BTX program apparently forgot to take care of "trash disposal," i.e., to see to
it that excess text be ignored by the program or somehow set aside.  For that
reason, the excess characters force parts of the program writer onto the
screen, and they are, as the Hamburg hackers discovered, sometimes telling. 
Specifically, they sometimes reveal the very secret that a BTX subscriber must
guard most closely, his identification code.  This passwordthe key to
access to the system.  Although it cannot be used to plunder someone else's
bank account, itpossible to cause a great deal of mischief.  Merchandise
can be ordered, vacations can be booked, magazine subscriptions can be entered. 
By agreement, the legal holder of the security codeliable for all damage
thus incurred.
Steffen WernSy and his colleagues--the cluba registered subscriber--caused
masses of BTX pages to overflow and then studied the ghostly characters on the
screen.  In so doing, they discovered "usd 70000," the password for Hamburger
Sparkasse (Haspa).  Now they were able to carry out what they had been planning
for some time:  an impressive demonstration of the inadequacies of
Bildschirmtext.  They set up a "contribution page."  Suppliers may charge a
type of protection fee or contribution for each call-in of their pages,
although this fee cannot exceed DM 9.99.  The account of the subscriber who
calls in the pageautomatically charged with the fee.  With the Sparkasse
password, the hackers now called in their own page--to the tune of DM 9.97.
The idea was for this to occur repeatedly, whichwhy a home computer was
programmed to automatically call in the page over and over again.  It did its
job well, and while the club members worked on other activities, the cash
register rang every three seconds.  From Saturday at 6:00 p.m. until Sunday at
1:00 p.m., a total of DM 135,000 was credited to the club's account, money
which they gladly returned to Haspa.
Long before computers were popular, American students dubbed a type of trick
using technology a "hack."  Legendarythe hack of Captain Crunch, a student
who took his name from a brand of breakfast cereal.  Inside the box of this
type of cereal was a small plastic whistle, that was coincidentally tuned to
exactly 2,600 hertz.  In the American telephone system, as Captain Crunch
discovered, this frequency, when whistled into the microphone of the telephone
receiver, caused a breakdown in the fee meter.
Word of the trick with free long-distance calls soon spread; it made the cereal
company rich and the telephone company poor.  Or at any rate, it was in a
difficult bind.  A decision had to be made between accepting the loss, the
amount of which was difficult to determine, and undertaking expensive technical
changes in the continental network.  Bell decided in favor of the second
option.
This type of blow against a computer system represents a wonderful triumph that
goes far beyond the financial advantage associated with it; ita liberating
blow, which frees us for a few moments from the dominance of technology.  In
the 1930s, small-plot gardeners in Hamburg illuminated their houses free of
charge.  The supplier of electricity was the nearby antenna of a strong radio
broadcaster, from which energy was diverted using a simple trap circuit to the
lamps.  For years, this hack went undetected--and once it was finally blown
open, it elicited a fundamental legal debate:  Are radio waves movable property
under the meaning of the law?
The trickster who thought up the hack with the first push-button pay phone by
SEL just 10 years ago remained anonymous.  For this, he used a piezoelectric
lighter.  Whoever wanted to make a free phone call simply went to a telephone
booth with the SEL phone, inserted a five-mark piece and called his party.  But
before all the money was used up, the lighter had to be struck near the key
pad.  The spark from the lighter significantly disturbed the electronics and
the phone was then forced to assume that the connection hadbeen made, and
thus--in dubio pro comparticipte--the five-mark piece was returned.  In all pay
phones of that type, the logic boards had to be replaced.
For the victim, the hacknot only annoying, itgenerally an educational
experience as well, revealing technical design flaws.  Naturally, as the degree
of complexity of the system increases, so does the potential for damage that
can be inflicted even with the first hack.  Thus, ita wonder that the games
played by BTX hackers have thus far been harmless.  After all, they revealed
the wretchedness of the Bildschirmtext design with a degree of clarity that
leaves nothing to be desired.
In BTX's country of origin, Great Britain, hackers made a game out of cracking
Prince Philip's electronic mailbox.  The BTX mailboxesdefinitely oddly
constructed.  Bildschirmtext letters that have already been mailed can be
rewritten later by the sender.  Any mailbox can even be rendered fully
inoperative.  In order to do so, all thatrequired--as the Hamburg Chaos
hackers also discovered--is that the command to repeat the entire call-in be
placed at the end of a page edit.  The page drawn up in this way then appears
repeatedly.  It also does so in the mailbox to which itsent, the result
being that nothing else can be retrieved from it.  Only the Bundespost knows
how to break up this vicious cycle.
A microcomputer can also be connected to the Bildschirmtext system.  But pity
the poor soul who uses it to call in a crash program specialized for his type
of machine.  That will cause the computer to crash, destroying the programs
loaded in its memory.  The only thing that can be done thento reboot.  The
destructive programoffered as a harmless Bildschirmtext page.  Advanced
hackers have even set them up as time bombs.  Itonly later, once the page--
generally headed with silly sayings--is long forgotten that the machine breaks
down, so that generally the cause can no longer be determined.
The Bundespost should have learned its lesson long ago, before its pride and
joy, Bildschirmtext, was dealt a resounding blow last week by the Sparkasse
trick.  The piecemeal adjustments that they undertook in the past after every
announced BTX hack were apparently inadequate.  A program that needs so much
clearing uphopelessly contaminated.
Naturally, the Bundespost knows this, and it grieves them in particular because
BTX had just overcome the last political hurdle on the path to being
universally introduced.  It also hurts since therealready a dearth of
interest in the new medium of communication.  According to predictions by the
Ministry, BTX should have around 150,000 subscribers by now.  In reality, that
figureonly a scant 19,000, of which 3,000suppliers.
